README.md, before:

# 🌱 Compost Maturity Predictor API & Mobile App

## 📌 Project Overview
This project provides an API that predicts **compost maturity** based on environmental and chemical parameters.  
It includes a **Flutter mobile app** that interacts with the FastAPI backend to deliver real-time predictions.

---

## 🌍 Public API Endpoint

**Swagger UI (for testing):**  
```
https://your-api-deployment-url.onrender.com/docs
```

---

## 🔄 Sample Request Payload (POST `/predict/`)
```json
{
  "day": 12,
  "temperature": 38.955,
  "mc": 45.2203,
  "ph": 8.0177,
  "cn_ratio": 17.0303,
  "ammonia": 814.4,
  "nitrate": 200.52,
  "tn": 1.91893,
  "toc": 32.67995,
  "ec": 3.5596,
  "om": 56.34024,
  "t_value": 0.63604,
  "gi": 79.4691
}
```
The prediction should or be close to 59.69828181
---

## 🎥 YouTube Demo

📺 **Watch the short 3-minute demo video of this project:**  
[🔗 YouTube Link](https://your-youtube-demo-link.com)

---

## 📱 How to Run the Flutter Mobile App

### 1️⃣ Install Flutter SDK
If not already installed, follow the [Flutter installation guide](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install).

Verify installation:
```bash
flutter doctor
```

---

### 2️⃣ Clone This Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Annemarie535257/linear_regression_model.git
cd linear_regression_model/flutter_app
```

---

### 3️⃣ Install Flutter Dependencies
```bash
flutter pub get
```

---

### 4️⃣ Update the API Endpoint in `main.dart`
In your Flutter app, find:
```dart
final url = Uri.parse('http://10.0.2.2:8500/predict/');
```
Replace with your public API URL:
```dart
final url = Uri.parse('https://your-api-deployment-url.onrender.com/predict/');
```

---

### 5️⃣ Run the App
```bash
flutter run
```

✅ You can also run on a specific device or emulator.

---


## 🔐 Note on Model and Dataset

To keep the repository clean, large files like the model (`.pkl`) and dataset (`.csv`) are **not pushed to GitHub**.  
Instead, they are automatically **downloaded at runtime using a script** (e.g. from Google Drive).

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **Flutter** – Mobile UI
- **FastAPI** – Backend API
- **scikit-learn** – Model training
- **pandas / numpy** – Data processing
- **Swagger UI** – API documentation

---

## 👩‍💻 Author

**Annemarie T.**  
GitHub: [@Annemarie535257](https://github.com/Annemarie535257)  
Email: _a.twagiraye@alustudent.com_

---

Commit message:

Enhance README with project mission, API details, and dataset information.

README.md, after:

# 🌱 Compost Maturity Predictor API & Mobile App

## 🌾 How This Supports My Agricultural Mission

As part of my mission to revolutionize the agriculture sector through innovative and sustainable practices, this project directly addresses one of the most overlooked aspects in organic farming: **precision composting**.

By building a tool that predicts compost maturity based on environmental and chemical parameters, I aim to help farmers:
- Apply compost at the **optimal time** for maximum soil health and crop yield,
- **Reduce guesswork** and dependency on physical cues alone,
- Adopt **data-driven practices** in organic waste recycling and soil management.

This aligns with my broader vision to **empower local farmers with accessible technology** that enhances productivity, supports sustainability, and contributes to a circular economy in agriculture.

---

## 📌 Project Overview

This project provides an API that predicts **compost maturity** based on environmental and chemical parameters.  
It includes a **Flutter mobile app** that interacts with the FastAPI backend to deliver real-time predictions.

---

## 🌍 Public API Endpoint

**Swagger UI (for testing):**  
```
https://linear-regression-model-r0fj.onrender.com/docs
```

---

## 🔄 Sample Request Payload (POST `/predict/`)
```json
{
  "day": 12,
  "temperature": 38.955,
  "mc": 45.2203,
  "ph": 8.0177,
  "cn_ratio": 17.0303,
  "ammonia": 814.4,
  "nitrate": 200.52,
  "tn": 1.91893,
  "toc": 32.67995,
  "ec": 3.5596,
  "om": 56.34024,
  "t_value": 0.63604,
  "gi": 79.4691
}
```

✅ The prediction should return or be close to: **59.69828181**

---

## 🎥 YouTube Demo

📺 **Watch the short 3-minute demo video of this project:**  
[🔗 YouTube Link](https://your-youtube-demo-link.com)

---

## 📱 How to Run the Flutter Mobile App

### 1️⃣ Install Flutter SDK
If not already installed, follow the [Flutter installation guide](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install).

Verify installation:
```bash
flutter doctor
```

---

### 2️⃣ Clone This Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Annemarie535257/linear_regression_model.git
cd linear_regression_model/flutter_app
```

---

### 3️⃣ Install Flutter Dependencies
```bash
flutter pub get
```

---

### 4️⃣ Update the API Endpoint in `main.dart`
In your Flutter app, find:
```dart
final url = Uri.parse('http://10.0.2.2:8500/predict/');
```

---

### 5️⃣ Run the App
```bash
flutter run
```

✅ You can also run on a specific device or emulator.

---

## 🔐 Note on Dataset

This project uses an open dataset from:  
📂 https://github.com/hafsa-kibria/Compost-Datasetdataset  
It has been preprocessed and refined to suit this prediction model.

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **Flutter** – Mobile UI
- **FastAPI** – Backend API
- **scikit-learn** – Model training
- **pandas / numpy** – Data processing
- **Swagger UI** – API documentation

---

## 👩‍💻 Author

**Anne Marie T.**  
GitHub: [@Annemarie535257](https://github.com/Annemarie535257)  
Email: _a.twagiraye@alustudent.com_

---
```
